docs/data/routes/docs/en.md, before:

---
name: docs
routeTemplate: ./data/component-templates/article.yml
title: Documentation
---

## How to get started with JSS

New to JSS? Learn key concepts in the [introduction area](/docs/introduction/why-jss).

Ready to get into code? The [Quick start](/docs/nextjs/getting-started-nextjs/walkthrough-dotnetnew) is written just for you.

## Questions?

See the [Help, FAQ, and Known Issues](/help). Not there? [Ask on Sitecore StackExchange](https://sitecore.stackexchange.com/questions/tagged/jss).

## Your feedback is welcome

We'd love to hear from you!
- For Q&A, you can post on [Sitecore Stack Exchange](https://sitecore.stackexchange.com/questions/tagged/jss).
- For bugs, file those in <a href="https://github.com/sitecore/jss/issues" target="_new">GitHub</a>.
- For thoughts and comments, you can find us in `#jss` on <a href="slack://channel?team=T09SHRBNU&amp;id=C7JT0NRQW" target="_new">Sitecore Community Slack</a> (<a href="https://www.akshaysura.com/2015/10/27/how-to-join-sitecore-slack-community-chat/" target="_new">how to join community Slack</a>).

We hope you enjoy JSS and build something really cool with it! :)

Commit message:

Add version compatibility note and link to table

docs/data/routes/docs/en.md, after:

---
name: docs
routeTemplate: ./data/component-templates/article.yml
title: Documentation
---

## How to get started with JSS

New to JSS? Learn key concepts in the [introduction area](/docs/introduction/why-jss).

Ready to get into code? The [Quick start](/docs/nextjs/getting-started-nextjs/walkthrough-dotnetnew) is written just for you.

> To ensure that your new JSS application is compatible with your licensed Sitecore XP version, consult the [compatibility table](https://support.sitecore.com/kb?id=kb_article_view&sysparm_article=KB0541788). 
> 
> To create an application using a previous version of JSS, see an example in the [JSS CLI reference](/docs/fundamentals/cli).

## Questions?

See the [Help, FAQ, and Known Issues](/help). Not there? [Ask on Sitecore StackExchange](https://sitecore.stackexchange.com/questions/tagged/jss).

## Your feedback is welcome

We'd love to hear from you!
- For Q&A, you can post on [Sitecore Stack Exchange](https://sitecore.stackexchange.com/questions/tagged/jss).
- For bugs, file those in <a href="https://github.com/sitecore/jss/issues" target="_new">GitHub</a>.
- For thoughts and comments, you can find us in `#jss` on <a href="slack://channel?team=T09SHRBNU&amp;id=C7JT0NRQW" target="_new">Sitecore Community Slack</a> (<a href="https://www.akshaysura.com/2015/10/27/how-to-join-sitecore-slack-community-chat/" target="_new">how to join community Slack</a>).

We hope you enjoy JSS and build something really cool with it! :)
