CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to Sitecore JavaScript Services

Want to contribute to Sitecore JavaScript Services? There are a few things you need to know. First, are you contributing a change to documentation only? If so, see the [documentation contributions section](#documentation-contribution) further below. Otherwise, read on.

## Pre-requisites:

- `node.js` ([Active LTS](https://nodejs.org/en/about/releases/) version) installed (cmd `node -v` to test).
- `npm` (6.x) installed (cmd `npm -v` to test).

## Developing

See Branching overview below - We use `dev` for our current development.

1. [Fork](https://help.github.com/articles/fork-a-repo/) this repository to your own GitHub account and then [clone](https://help.github.com/articles/cloning-a-repository/) it to your local device.
2. Create a new branch e.g. `git switch -c feature/my-jss-feature`
3. When you're happy with your changes, open a Pull Request targeting the `dev` branch of the `sitecore/jss` repository. You may add the JSS Dev Reviewers group as Reviewers for potentially expedited initial PR review.
4. Note: CI will run lint for all packages and samples, as well as tests for all packages. Please make sure these pass or your PR can not be merged.

## Setting up

In your fork from the root of the monorepo:

- `npm install` - this will install Lerna at the root and allow the remaining scripts to be called.
- (optional) `npm run install-git-hooks` - installs a pre-push hook that will lint all samples and apps before a `git-push`. Opt out per-push with the `--no-verify` flag.
- `npm run reset` -> will clean all `node_modules`, re-install them with `lerna bootstrap`, and then build all JSS packages.

## Linting and Code Style guidelines

The monorepo includes a top level `.eslintrc` file that each package inherits. In order to avoid linting errors and adhere to our style guidelines while developing, it is strongly recommended to install the vs code extension  [ESLint](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=dbaeumer.vscode-eslint), and use it as the document formatter. Formatting the document with this plugin will fix formatting issues and avoid linting errors.

To lint manually, the following commands are available from the root of the monorepo, you may also install the git-hook which will run these commands as a pre-push hook:

```shell
npm run lint-packages // lint everything under ./packages
npm run lint-apps // lint everything under ./samples
```

You may also lint a package by itself by running `npm run lint` while the `cwd` is the root of the package, for example:

```shell
cd ./packages/sitecore-jss
npm run lint
```

Some linting errors may be fixed automatically using the `--fix` flag. You may do this from the root, however you will need `--` twice before the flag in order to pass the argument to the inner command

```shell
npm run lint-packages -- -- --fix 
```

In addition to linting rules, there are a few coding guidelines worth mentioning here that will cause less friction when trying to get a PR merged.

- TypeScript: make sure everything has the appropriate type.

- JSDoc: new functions, interfaces, classes, etc. need to have a JSDoc style comment above their declaration. Example: https://jsdoc.app/howto-es2015-classes.html

## Run unit tests

To keep everything running smoothly, please include unit tests when applicable.
To run all tests, from the root of the monorepo:

```shell
npm run test-packages
```

In the root of a package:

```shell
npm run test
```

# Troubleshooting

Problem: Build of package or sample fails with the following error: `cannot find module ...`

Solution: If dependencies in a package change, you may need to reset the repo to have the latest changes. This is often needed after pulling changes that include a dependency change.
From the root of the monorepo:

```shell
npm run reset
```

# Branching overview

* `master `- latest released version
* `dev `- latest changes for the next release
* `release `branches - all major released versions

Commit message:

Add run bootstrap as first option in troubleshooting

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to Sitecore JavaScript Services

Want to contribute to Sitecore JavaScript Services? There are a few things you need to know. First, are you contributing a change to documentation only? If so, see the [documentation contributions section](#documentation-contribution) further below. Otherwise, read on.

## Pre-requisites:

- `node.js` ([Active LTS](https://nodejs.org/en/about/releases/) version) installed (cmd `node -v` to test).
- `npm` (6.x) installed (cmd `npm -v` to test).

## Developing

See Branching overview below - We use `dev` for our current development.

1. [Fork](https://help.github.com/articles/fork-a-repo/) this repository to your own GitHub account and then [clone](https://help.github.com/articles/cloning-a-repository/) it to your local device.
2. Create a new branch e.g. `git switch -c feature/my-jss-feature`
3. When you're happy with your changes, open a Pull Request targeting the `dev` branch of the `sitecore/jss` repository. You may add the JSS Dev Reviewers group as Reviewers for potentially expedited initial PR review.
4. Note: CI will run lint for all packages and samples, as well as tests for all packages. Please make sure these pass or your PR can not be merged.

## Setting up

In your fork from the root of the monorepo:

- `npm install` - this will install Lerna at the root and allow the remaining scripts to be called.
- (optional) `npm run install-git-hooks` - installs a pre-push hook that will lint all samples and apps before a `git-push`. Opt out per-push with the `--no-verify` flag.
- `npm run reset` -> will clean all `node_modules`, re-install them with `lerna bootstrap`, and then build all JSS packages.

## Linting and Code Style guidelines

The monorepo includes a top level `.eslintrc` file that each package inherits. In order to avoid linting errors and adhere to our style guidelines while developing, it is strongly recommended to install the vs code extension  [ESLint](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=dbaeumer.vscode-eslint), and use it as the document formatter. Formatting the document with this plugin will fix formatting issues and avoid linting errors.

To lint manually, the following commands are available from the root of the monorepo, you may also install the git-hook which will run these commands as a pre-push hook:

```shell
npm run lint-packages // lint everything under ./packages
npm run lint-apps // lint everything under ./samples
```

You may also lint a package by itself by running `npm run lint` while the `cwd` is the root of the package, for example:

```shell
cd ./packages/sitecore-jss
npm run lint
```

Some linting errors may be fixed automatically using the `--fix` flag. You may do this from the root, however you will need `--` twice before the flag in order to pass the argument to the inner command

```shell
npm run lint-packages -- -- --fix 
```

In addition to linting rules, there are a few coding guidelines worth mentioning here that will cause less friction when trying to get a PR merged.

- TypeScript: make sure everything has the appropriate type.

- JSDoc: new functions, interfaces, classes, etc. need to have a JSDoc style comment above their declaration. Example: https://jsdoc.app/howto-es2015-classes.html

## Run unit tests

To keep everything running smoothly, please include unit tests when applicable.
To run all tests, from the root of the monorepo:

```shell
npm run test-packages
```

In the root of a package:

```shell
npm run test
```

# Troubleshooting

Problem: Build of package or sample fails with the following error: `cannot find module ...`

Solution: If dependencies in a package change, you may need to install said dependencies.
From the root of the monorepo:

```shell
npm run bootstrap
```

`npm run bootstrap` will solve the problem in most cases, however in nuclear scenarios you may run the following to completely reset the monorepo:

```shell
npm run reset
```

# Branching overview

* `master `- latest released version
* `dev `- latest changes for the next release
* `release `branches - all major released versions
