docs/data/routes/docs/nextjs/data-fetching/switching-fetch-method/en.md, before:

---
name: switching-fetch-method
routeTemplate: ./data/component-templates/article.yml
title: Switching between REST and GraphQL
---
# Walkthrough: Switching between REST and GraphQL for Layout and Dictionary data

The Next.js sample application can use either the Sitecore Layout Service REST API or the Sitecore GraphQL "Edge" schema to fetch layout and dictionary data.

> See [Layout Service API reference](/docs/fundamentals/services/layout-service) and [Dictionary Service API reference](/docs/fundamentals/services/dictionary-service) for more information.

You can choose the initial dictionary and layout data fetch method on create with the optional `fetchWith` parameter. REST is used by default if you omit the parameter. For example, [with `jss create`](/docs/nextjs/getting-started-nextjs/walkthrough-jsscreate):

```
jss create my-first-jss-app nextjs --fetchWith {REST|GraphQL}
```

However, you may wish to switch the fetch method after creation.

To switch the Next.js sample application from REST to GraphQL:

1. Move or delete `\lib\dictionary-service-factory.ts`
2. Download [`dictionary-service-factory.graphql.ts`](https://github.com/Sitecore/jss/blob/master/samples/nextjs/src/lib/dictionary-service-factory.graphql.ts) to `\lib\` and rename as `dictionary-service-factory.ts`

To switch the Next.js sample application from GraphQL to REST:

1. Move or delete `\lib\dictionary-service-factory.ts`
2. Download [`dictionary-service-factory.ts`](https://github.com/Sitecore/jss/blob/master/samples/nextjs/src/lib/dictionary-service-factory.ts) to `\lib\`

Commit message:

Add CLI reference link, add headings for the switch sections

docs/data/routes/docs/nextjs/data-fetching/switching-fetch-method/en.md, after:

---
name: switching-fetch-method
routeTemplate: ./data/component-templates/article.yml
title: Switching between REST and GraphQL
---
# Walkthrough: Switching between REST and GraphQL for Layout and Dictionary data

The Next.js sample application can use either the Sitecore Layout Service REST API or the Sitecore GraphQL "Edge" schema to fetch layout and dictionary data.

> See [Layout Service API reference](/docs/fundamentals/services/layout-service) and [Dictionary Service API reference](/docs/fundamentals/services/dictionary-service) for more information.

You can change the data-fetching method after project creation. 

## From REST to GraphQL

To switch the Next.js sample application from REST to GraphQL:

1. Move or delete `\lib\dictionary-service-factory.ts`.
2. Download [`dictionary-service-factory.graphql.ts`](https://github.com/Sitecore/jss/blob/master/samples/nextjs/src/lib/dictionary-service-factory.graphql.ts) to `\lib\`. 
3. Rename as `dictionary-service-factory.ts`.

## From GraphQL to REST

To switch the Next.js sample application from GraphQL to REST:

1. Move or delete `\lib\dictionary-service-factory.ts`.
2. Download [`dictionary-service-factory.ts`](https://github.com/Sitecore/jss/blob/master/samples/nextjs/src/lib/dictionary-service-factory.ts) to `\lib\`.
