docs/data/routes/docs/nextjs/tracking-and-analytics/configuration/en.md, before:

---
name: configuration
routeTemplate: ./data/component-templates/article.yml
title: Enabling tracking and analytics
---
# Walkthrough: Enabling Tracking and Analytics

This topic will guide you through the steps required to enable full Sitecore tracking and analytics for your Next.js application.

> See [Sitecore Experience Platform documentation](https://doc.sitecore.com/developers/101/sitecore-experience-platform/en/web-tracking.html) for more information about tracking and analytics.

Note this is different than *client-side tracking* via the JSS tracking API, which is possible for *both Static Site Generation (SSG) and Server-side Rendering (SSR)*. Please see the [JSS Tracking](/docs/fundamentals/services/tracking) page for details.

## Next.js application

### SSR only

You must use a Next.js SSR page route. An example SSR route is included with the Next.js sample app. See [this page](/docs/nextjs/page-routing/switching-to-ssr) for details.

### Layout Service requests

[Sitecore Layout Service](/docs/fundamentals/services/layout-service) requests must:

1. have tracking enabled (see [`tracking` parameter](/docs/fundamentals/services/layout-service#using-the-layout-service)), and
2. perform [header passing](/docs/nextjs/tracking-and-analytics/overview#header-passing)

Both of these **are taken care of** using the `RestLayoutService` included with the Next.js SDK (part of the `@sitecore-jss/sitecore-jss-nextjs` npm package).

> The Next.js sample app uses the `RestLayoutService` in the `SitecorePagePropsFactory`. See [`src/lib/page-props-factory.ts`](https://github.com/Sitecore/jss/blob/master/samples/nextjs/src/lib/page-props-factory.ts) for details.

The `RestLayoutService` will track layout requests and perform header passing by default, so there is no extra configuration required. However, tracking can be disabled with the optional `tracking` parameter, so ensure this hasn't been specifically set to `false`. For example:

```javascript
this.layoutService = new RestLayoutService({
  ...
  tracking: false, // <-- disables tracking!
});
```

## Sitecore configuration

> The default Sitecore configuration file included with the Next.js sample app already includes disabled configuration patches for these settings. You can find this file under `/sitecore/config`. Uncomment to enable.

### Forwarded request header

The `Analytics.ForwardedRequestHttpHeader` Sitecore setting must be set to `X-Forwarded-For`.

```xml
<setting name="Analytics.ForwardedRequestHttpHeader" set:value="X-Forwarded-For" />
```

[Header passing](/docs/nextjs/tracking-and-analytics/overview#header-passing) will send the original IP address of the client on the `X-Forwarded-For` header. This setting tells Sitecore to read the forwarded header, making analytics track the correct original client IP address.

> See [Sitecore Experience Manager documentation](https://doc.sitecore.com/developers/101/sitecore-experience-manager/en/set-up-sitecore-ip-geolocation.html) for more information about this setting.

### Disable robot detection

During development, any analytics activity will be flagged as a robot. These settings will enable tracking of robot activity for ease of testing. These should be set in development **only**.

```xml
<setting name="Analytics.AutoDetectBots" set:value="false" />
<setting name="Analytics.Robots.IgnoreRobots" set:value="false" />
```

> See [Sitecore Experience Platform documentation](https://doc.sitecore.com/developers/101/sitecore-experience-platform/en/robot-detection-overview.html) for more information about robot detection.

## Secure cookies

As of Sitecore 10.0.1, Sitecore sets the `Secure` flag on all cookies by default. This can impact JSS local development, as the proxied Sitecore cookies (including analytics cookies) will be rejected by the browser if your application is not running under HTTPS. Thus the application will not track visits, and it may not apply content personalization rules. To work around this, you can either:

1. Enable HTTPS in your local environment by using a local reverse proxy or using a service such as ngrok.
    * If you are running Sitecore in containers for development (recommended), you can use the Traefik reverse proxy provided in the `docker-compose` environment.
        * **The Sitecore Containers template for Next.js has this pre-configured.**
    * If you are using ngrok, be sure the `Host` header is rewritten to your local hostname.
        * `ngrok http -host-header=rewrite 3000`
2. Transform the Sitecore Web.config and set:
    * `requireSSL` to `false` and `sameSite` to `Unspecified` in the `httpCookies` configuration
    * `cookieSameSite` to `Unspecified` in the `sessionState` configuration
    * **This is not recommended for production.**

Commit message:

[Docs][NextJs] Account for new `fetchWith` and `prerender` configuration options for 'jss create' (#620)
* Progress on doc updates for SSG/SSR & REST/GraphQL app modes

* parameter rename

* Another batch of updates

* Added 'Switching between REST and GraphQL' doc, minor cleanup

* Update "Tracking & Analytics Overview and Architecture" docs

Explicitly state that SSR is required for personalization, to avoid confusion

* Add jss create to CLI reference docs

* Add reference to CLI doc

* Added clarification to analytics support (SSR with Sitecore Layout Service REST API only) to "How is Next.js Different" doc

* Provide more detailed example for `jss create` with optional params

* Concentrate REST & SSR info in a pre-requisites section & clean up

* Re-work intro, adjust heading levels

* Drop parens

* Change wording

* Add CLI reference link, add headings for the switch sections

* Change case for consistency

* Add note about visitor consent for tracking

* Change heading

Co-authored-by: Adam Brauer <adab@sitecore.net>
Co-authored-by: Anastasiya Flynn <flynn.github@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Anca Emcken <AncaIO@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/data/routes/docs/nextjs/tracking-and-analytics/configuration/en.md, after:

---
name: configuration
routeTemplate: ./data/component-templates/article.yml
title: Enabling tracking and analytics
---
# Walkthrough: Enabling Tracking and Analytics

This topic will guide you through the steps required to enable full Sitecore tracking and analytics for your Next.js application.

> See [Sitecore Experience Platform documentation](https://doc.sitecore.com/developers/101/sitecore-experience-platform/en/web-tracking.html) for more information about tracking and analytics.

> Note this is different than *client-side tracking* via the JSS tracking API, which is possible for *both Static Site Generation (SSG) and Server-side Rendering (SSR)*. Please see the [JSS Tracking](/docs/fundamentals/services/tracking) page for details.

JSS supports tracking and analytics only for server-side rendered applications using the REST fetch method. You can not currently use tracking and analytics with the Sitecore GraphQL "Edge" schema.

## Pre-requisites

- The application uses the SSR pre-rendering form. 
- The application uses the [Sitecore Layout Service REST API](/docs/fundamentals/services/layout-service). 

> You can choose the pre-rendering form and the fetch method when creating the project with the JSS CLI. For details, consult the [JSS CLI reference](/docs/fundamentals/cli).

> If your application currently uses SSG, you can [switch the `[[..path]].tsx` route from SSG to SSR](/docs/nextjs/page-routing/switching-to-ssr).

## Layout Service requests

Sitecore Layout Service requests must:

1. Have tracking enabled (see [`tracking` parameter](/docs/fundamentals/services/layout-service#using-the-layout-service)).
2. Perform [header passing](/docs/nextjs/tracking-and-analytics/overview#header-passing).

Both of these **are taken care of** using the `RestLayoutService` included with the Next.js SDK (part of the `@sitecore-jss/sitecore-jss-nextjs` npm package).

> The Next.js sample app uses the `RestLayoutService` in the `SitecorePagePropsFactory`. See [`src/lib/page-props-factory.ts`](https://github.com/Sitecore/jss/blob/master/samples/nextjs/src/lib/page-props-factory.ts) for details.

The `RestLayoutService` will track layout requests and perform header passing by default, so there is no extra configuration required. 

Tracking can be disabled with the optional `tracking` parameter, so ensure this hasn't been specifically set to `false`. For example:

```javascript
this.layoutService = new RestLayoutService({
  ...
  tracking: false, // <-- disables tracking!
});
``` 

> You might want to [Enable or disable web tracking based on visitor consent](https://doc.sitecore.com/developers/101/sitecore-experience-platform/en/enable-or-disable-web-tracking-based-on-visitor-consent.html).

## Sitecore configuration

> The default Sitecore configuration file included with the Next.js sample app already includes disabled configuration patches for these settings. You can find this file under `/sitecore/config`. Uncomment to enable.

### Forwarded request header

The `Analytics.ForwardedRequestHttpHeader` Sitecore setting must be set to `X-Forwarded-For`.

```xml
<setting name="Analytics.ForwardedRequestHttpHeader" set:value="X-Forwarded-For" />
```

[Header passing](/docs/nextjs/tracking-and-analytics/overview#header-passing) will send the original IP address of the client on the `X-Forwarded-For` header. This setting tells Sitecore to read the forwarded header, making analytics track the correct original client IP address.

> See [Sitecore Experience Manager documentation](https://doc.sitecore.com/developers/101/sitecore-experience-manager/en/set-up-sitecore-ip-geolocation.html) for more information about this setting.

### Disable robot detection

During development, any analytics activity will be flagged as a robot. These settings will enable tracking of robot activity for ease of testing. These should be set in development **only**.

```xml
<setting name="Analytics.AutoDetectBots" set:value="false" />
<setting name="Analytics.Robots.IgnoreRobots" set:value="false" />
```

> See [Sitecore Experience Platform documentation](https://doc.sitecore.com/developers/101/sitecore-experience-platform/en/robot-detection-overview.html) for more information about robot detection.

## Secure cookies

As of Sitecore 10.0.1, Sitecore sets the `Secure` flag on all cookies by default. This can impact JSS local development, as the proxied Sitecore cookies (including analytics cookies) will be rejected by the browser if your application is not running under HTTPS. Thus the application will not track visits, and it may not apply content personalization rules. To work around this, you can either:

1. Enable HTTPS in your local environment by using a local reverse proxy or using a service such as ngrok.
    * If you are running Sitecore in containers for development (recommended), you can use the Traefik reverse proxy provided in the `docker-compose` environment.
        * **The Sitecore Containers template for Next.js has this pre-configured.**
    * If you are using ngrok, be sure the `Host` header is rewritten to your local hostname.
        * `ngrok http -host-header=rewrite 3000`
2. Transform the Sitecore Web.config and set:
    * `requireSSL` to `false` and `sameSite` to `Unspecified` in the `httpCookies` configuration
    * `cookieSameSite` to `Unspecified` in the `sessionState` configuration
    * **This is not recommended for production.**
