docs/data/routes/docs/fundamentals/services/dictionary/jss-dictionary-api/en.md, before:

---
name: jss-dictionary-api
routeTemplate: ./data/component-templates/article.yml
title: JSS Dictionary API
---

# JSS Dictionary API 

Sitecore JSS, through the core JSS NPM package `sitecore-jss`, provides a simple API to help you fetch app-specific translation dictionaries using the [Sitecore Dictionary Service](/docs/fundamentals/services/dictionary/sitecore-dictionary-service). Once you have the dictionary data, it is up to you to choose how to utilize it and what internationalization libraries you prefer. 

The following examples show you how to retrieve dictionary data from your Sitecore instance using the REST and GraphQL. 

> For all the examples below, we assume you will create the files in the root directory of the application and that you have a `config.js` file in that same directory. Adjust the `import` statements as necessary to reflect your project's setup.

## Examples
### Fetching dictionary data with GraphQL

You can fetch dictionary data from Sitecore using GraphQL and the JSS `GraphQLDictionaryService`. 

1. In a file `dictionary-service.ts`, create and configure an instance of the `GraphQLDictionaryService`: 

```javascript
import {GraphQLDictionaryService} from '@sitecore-jss/sitecore-jss';
import config from './config';

export const dictionaryService = new GraphQLDictionaryService({
      endpoint: config.graphQLEndpoint,
      apiKey: config.sitecoreApiKey,
      siteName: config.jssAppName,
      /*
      The Dictionary Service needs a root item ID in order to fetch dictionary phrases for the current
      app. If your Sitecore instance only has 1 JSS App, you can specify the root item ID here;
      otherwise, the service will attempt to figure out the root item for the current JSS App using GraphQL and app name.
      rootItemId: '{GUID}'
      */
```

2. In the file where you want to fetch the data, import and use your new dictionary service instance: 

```javascript
import { dictionaryService } from './dictionary-service';
const language = 'en';
dictionaryService.fetchDictionaryData(language).then(data => {
    // do something with the data
});
```

### Fetching dictionary data with REST

To invoke the REST Dictionary Service from a JSS application: 

1. In a file `dictionary-service.ts`, create an instance of the `RestDictionaryService` class and provide the configuration object:

```javascript
import { RestDictionaryService } from '@sitecore-jss/sitecore-jss';
import config from './config';

export const dictionaryService = new RestDictionaryService({
  apiHost: config.sitecoreApiHost,
  apiKey: config.sitecoreApiKey,
  siteName: config.jssAppName,
});
```
2. In the file where you want to fetch the data, import and use your new dictionary service instance: 

```javascript
import { dictionaryService } from './dictionary-service';
const language = 'en';
dictionaryService.fetchDictionaryData(language).then(data => {
    // do something with the data
});
```

### Using a custom data fetcher

The `RestDictionaryServiceConfig` type accepts a `dataFetcher` property. You can use this property to pass a custom data fetcher to your instance of the Dictionary Service. By default, the JSS REST Dictionary service uses `axios`.

To use a REST dictionary service with a custom data fetcher: 

1. In a file `dictionary-service.ts`, create an instance of the `RestDictionaryService` class and provide the configuration object:

```typescript
import { AxiosResponse } from 'axios';
import { 
  AxiosDataFetcher,
  RestDictionaryService,
  DictionaryServiceData
} from '@sitecore-jss/sitecore-jss';
import config from './config';

// define your custom data fetcher
function dataFetcher(url: string, data?: unknown): Promise<AxiosResponse<DictionaryServiceData>> {
  return new AxiosDataFetcher().fetch(url, data);
}

export const dictionaryService = new RestDictionaryService({
  apiHost: config.sitecoreApiHost,
  apiKey: config.sitecoreApiKey,
  siteName: config.jssAppName,
  // provide your custom data fetcher to the service instance
  dataFetcher
});
```

2. Import and use the new dictionary service:  
```javascript
import { dictionaryService } from './dictionary-service';

const language = 'en';

dictionaryService.fetchDictionaryData(language).then(data => {
     // do something with the data
});
```

If you'd like to learn more about other translation techniques with JSS, see [Content Translation](/docs/techniques/content-translation).

Commit message:

Add note on sample app

docs/data/routes/docs/fundamentals/services/dictionary/jss-dictionary-api/en.md, after:

---
name: jss-dictionary-api
routeTemplate: ./data/component-templates/article.yml
title: JSS Dictionary API
---

# JSS Dictionary API 

Sitecore JSS, through the core JSS NPM package `sitecore-jss`, provides a simple API to help you fetch app-specific translation dictionaries using the [Sitecore Dictionary Service](/docs/fundamentals/services/dictionary/sitecore-dictionary-service). Once you have the dictionary data, it is up to you to choose how to utilize it and what internationalization libraries you prefer. 

The following examples show you how to retrieve dictionary data from your Sitecore instance using the REST and GraphQL. 

> For all the examples below, we assume you will create the files in the root directory of the application and that you have a `config.js` file in that same directory. Adjust the `import` statements as necessary to reflect your project's setup.

## Examples

The following sections provide some simplified examples. If your project is based on a JSS sample application (you set it up with `jss create` or copied a sample from the [JSS repository](https://github.com/Sitecore/jss/tree/master/samples)), your application already handles fetching of dictionary data.
### Fetching dictionary data with GraphQL

You can fetch dictionary data from Sitecore using GraphQL and the JSS `GraphQLDictionaryService`. 

1. In a file `dictionary-service.ts`, create and configure an instance of the `GraphQLDictionaryService`: 

```javascript
import {GraphQLDictionaryService} from '@sitecore-jss/sitecore-jss';
import config from './config';

export const dictionaryService = new GraphQLDictionaryService({
      endpoint: config.graphQLEndpoint,
      apiKey: config.sitecoreApiKey,
      siteName: config.jssAppName,
      /*
      The Dictionary Service needs a root item ID in order to fetch dictionary phrases for the current
      app. If your Sitecore instance only has 1 JSS App, you can specify the root item ID here;
      otherwise, the service will attempt to figure out the root item for the current JSS App using GraphQL and app name.
      rootItemId: '{GUID}'
      */
```

2. In the file where you want to fetch the data, import and use your new dictionary service instance: 

```javascript
import { dictionaryService } from './dictionary-service';
const language = 'en';
dictionaryService.fetchDictionaryData(language).then(data => {
    // do something with the data
});
```

### Fetching dictionary data with REST

To invoke the REST Dictionary Service from a JSS application: 

1. In a file `dictionary-service.ts`, create an instance of the `RestDictionaryService` class and provide the configuration object:

```javascript
import { RestDictionaryService } from '@sitecore-jss/sitecore-jss';
import config from './config';

export const dictionaryService = new RestDictionaryService({
  apiHost: config.sitecoreApiHost,
  apiKey: config.sitecoreApiKey,
  siteName: config.jssAppName,
});
```
2. In the file where you want to fetch the data, import and use your new dictionary service instance: 

```javascript
import { dictionaryService } from './dictionary-service';
const language = 'en';
dictionaryService.fetchDictionaryData(language).then(data => {
    // do something with the data
});
```

### Using a custom data fetcher

The `RestDictionaryServiceConfig` type accepts a `dataFetcher` property. You can use this property to pass a custom data fetcher to your instance of the Dictionary Service. By default, the JSS REST Dictionary service uses `axios`.

To use a REST dictionary service with a custom data fetcher: 

1. In a file `dictionary-service.ts`, create an instance of the `RestDictionaryService` class and provide the configuration object:

```typescript
import { AxiosResponse } from 'axios';
import { 
  AxiosDataFetcher,
  RestDictionaryService,
  DictionaryServiceData
} from '@sitecore-jss/sitecore-jss';
import config from './config';

// define your custom data fetcher
function dataFetcher(url: string, data?: unknown): Promise<AxiosResponse<DictionaryServiceData>> {
  return new AxiosDataFetcher().fetch(url, data);
}

export const dictionaryService = new RestDictionaryService({
  apiHost: config.sitecoreApiHost,
  apiKey: config.sitecoreApiKey,
  siteName: config.jssAppName,
  // provide your custom data fetcher to the service instance
  dataFetcher
});
```

2. Import and use the new dictionary service:  
```javascript
import { dictionaryService } from './dictionary-service';

const language = 'en';

dictionaryService.fetchDictionaryData(language).then(data => {
     // do something with the data
});
```



If you'd like to learn more about other translation techniques with JSS, see [Content Translation](/docs/techniques/content-translation).
