docs/data/routes/docs/nextjs/tracking-and-analytics/overview/en.md, before:

---
name: overview
routeTemplate: ./data/component-templates/article.yml
title: Overview and architecture
---
# Tracking & Analytics Overview and Architecture

Full Sitecore analytics and personalization functionality is possible with Next.js on any SSR (Server-side Rendered) page route.

> Note [client-side JSS tracking](/docs/fundamentals/services/tracking) is possible for *both SSG and SSR*.

> By default, the Next.js sample application uses a route optimized for SSG, but can be switched to SSR. See [here](/docs/nextjs/page-routing/switching-to-ssr) for steps.

For Sitecore analytics and personalization to work with JSS, the appropriate HTTP headers must be present at the browser and Layout Service.

> You can learn more about about Sitecore analytics and personalization with JSS [here](/docs/fundamentals/personalization).

With Next.js, this is accomplished by passing specific HTTP headers between the (browser-initiated) page request/response and the (server-side-initiated) Layout Service request/response. This process is referred to as *header passing* in this topic.

## Header Passing

Here's how header passing works during a page request/response cycle. The flow is based on using the SSR page route example `pages_examples\[[...path]].SSR.tsx` that comes with the Next.js sample application.

<img src="/assets/img/nextjs-sitecore-analytics.svg" alt="Next.js Sitecore Analytics" />

The page request/response is sent through `getServerSideProps` on the Next.js SSR route and ultimately is passed along to the `RestLayoutService`.

The `RestLayoutService` (part of the `@sitecore-jss/sitecore-jss-nextjs` npm package) is responsible for making the Layout Service request to fetch layout data but also for coordinating the *header passing*. The following headers are involved in the transfer.

**Request (Page -> Layout Service)**
* `cookie`
* `user-agent`
* `referer`
* `X-Forwarded-For`

**Response (Page <- Layout Service)**
* `set-cookie`


## Configuration

The Next.js sample application includes all configuration necessary to start using Sitecore analytics and personalization with Next.js SSR. However, additional steps may be required. Refer to [Enabling tracking and analytics](/docs/nextjs/tracking-and-analytics/configuration) for details.

Commit message:

[Docs][NextJs] Account for new `fetchWith` and `prerender` configuration options for 'jss create' (#620)
* Progress on doc updates for SSG/SSR & REST/GraphQL app modes

* parameter rename

* Another batch of updates

* Added 'Switching between REST and GraphQL' doc, minor cleanup

* Update "Tracking & Analytics Overview and Architecture" docs

Explicitly state that SSR is required for personalization, to avoid confusion

* Add jss create to CLI reference docs

* Add reference to CLI doc

* Added clarification to analytics support (SSR with Sitecore Layout Service REST API only) to "How is Next.js Different" doc

* Provide more detailed example for `jss create` with optional params

* Concentrate REST & SSR info in a pre-requisites section & clean up

* Re-work intro, adjust heading levels

* Drop parens

* Change wording

* Add CLI reference link, add headings for the switch sections

* Change case for consistency

* Add note about visitor consent for tracking

* Change heading

Co-authored-by: Adam Brauer <adab@sitecore.net>
Co-authored-by: Anastasiya Flynn <flynn.github@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Anca Emcken <AncaIO@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/data/routes/docs/nextjs/tracking-and-analytics/overview/en.md, after:

---
name: overview
routeTemplate: ./data/component-templates/article.yml
title: Overview
---
# Tracking and Analytics Overview

Sitecore analytics and personalization functionality is possible with Next.js only on SSR (Server-side Rendered) page routes using the [Sitecore Layout Service REST API](/docs/fundamentals/services/layout-service).

> See [Sitecore Experience Platform documentation](https://doc.sitecore.com/developers/101/sitecore-experience-platform/en/web-tracking.html) for more information about tracking and analytics.

> Note this is different than *client-side tracking* via the JSS tracking API, which is possible for *both Static Site Generation (SSG) and Server-side Rendering (SSR)*. Please see the [JSS Tracking](/docs/fundamentals/services/tracking) page for details.

For Sitecore analytics and personalization to work with JSS, the appropriate HTTP headers must be present at the browser and Layout Service.

> You can learn more about about Sitecore analytics and personalization with JSS [here](/docs/fundamentals/personalization).

With Next.js, this is accomplished by passing specific HTTP headers between the (browser-initiated) page request/response and the (server-side-initiated) Layout Service request/response. This process is referred to as *header passing* in this topic.

## Header Passing

Here's how header passing works during a page request/response cycle. The flow is based on using the [SSR `[[..path]].tsx`](https://github.com/Sitecore/jss/blob/master/samples/nextjs/src/pages/%5B%5B%2E%2E%2Epath%5D%5D.SSR.tsx) route example that comes with the Next.js sample application.

<img src="/assets/img/nextjs-sitecore-analytics.svg" alt="Next.js Sitecore Analytics" />

The page request/response is sent through `getServerSideProps` on the Next.js SSR route and ultimately is passed along to the `RestLayoutService`.

The `RestLayoutService` (part of the `@sitecore-jss/sitecore-jss-nextjs` npm package) is responsible for making the Layout Service request to fetch layout data but also for coordinating the *header passing*. The following headers are involved in the transfer.

**Request (Page -> Layout Service)**
* `cookie`
* `user-agent`
* `referer`
* `X-Forwarded-For`

**Response (Page <- Layout Service)**
* `set-cookie`


## Configuration

The Next.js sample application includes all configuration necessary to start using Sitecore analytics and personalization with Next.js SSR. However, additional steps may be required. Refer to [Enabling tracking and analytics](/docs/nextjs/tracking-and-analytics/configuration) for details.
