docs/data/routes/docs/nextjs/getting-started/options/en.md, before:

---
name: options
routeTemplate: ./data/component-templates/article.yml
title: Getting Started options overview
---
#  Development environment options for JSS Next.js projects

Sitecore offers two paths for setting up your development environment, based on your role and operating system. 

## Full-stack development

Sitecore provides a Getting Started template for Sitecore developers that want to try out  Sitecore JSS with [Sitecore Containers](https://containers.doc.sitecore.com/), the [Sitecore Next.js SDK](https://jss.sitecore.com/), and [Sitecore Content Serialization](https://doc.sitecore.com/developers/100/developer-tools/en/sitecore-content-serialization.html). 

> This path requires a machine with the Windows operating system.

To create a solution from the Getting Started template, follow the [Walkthrough: Using the .NET starter template for JSS Next.js projects](../walkthrough-dotnetnew/en.md).

## Front-end development only

Get started with JSS front-end development on any operating system supported by [Node](https://nodejs.org/), using the JSS CLI. 

> With this path you only get a JSS application based on Next.js. You will need to perform additional steps to connect to a Sitecore instance.

Follow the [Walkthrough: Creating a JSS Next.js starter application](../walkthrough-jsscreate/en.md) to set up the starter application for front-end development.

Commit message:

Mention Docker, dev workflows, fix punctuation

docs/data/routes/docs/nextjs/getting-started/options/en.md, after:

---
name: options
routeTemplate: ./data/component-templates/article.yml
title: Getting Started options overview
---
#  Development environment options for JSS Next.js projects

Sitecore offers two paths for setting up your development environment based on your role, workflow, and operating system. 

## Full-stack development

Sitecore provides a Getting Started template for Sitecore developers that want to try out  Sitecore JSS with [Docker](https://www.docker.com/), [Sitecore Containers](https://containers.doc.sitecore.com/), the [Sitecore Next.js SDK](https://jss.sitecore.com/), and [Sitecore Content Serialization](https://doc.sitecore.com/developers/100/developer-tools/en/sitecore-content-serialization.html).

The resulting solution is optimized for a [Sitecore-first developer workflow](https://jss.sitecore.com/docs/fundamentals/dev-workflows/sitecore-first). 

> This path requires a machine with the Windows operating system.

To create a solution from the Getting Started template, follow the [Walkthrough: Using the .NET starter template for JSS Next.js projects](../walkthrough-dotnetnew/en.md).

## Front-end development only

Get started with JSS front-end development on any operating system supported by [Node](https://nodejs.org/), using the JSS CLI. 

> With this path, you only get a JSS application based on Next.js for a [code-first developer workflow](https://jss.sitecore.com/docs/fundamentals/dev-workflows/code-first). You will need to perform additional steps to connect to a Sitecore instance.

Follow the [Walkthrough: Creating a JSS Next.js starter application](../walkthrough-jsscreate/en.md) to set up the starter application for front-end development.
