docs/data/routes/docs/nextjs/page-routing/switching-to-ssr/en.md, before:

---
name: switching-to-ssr
routeTemplate: ./data/component-templates/article.yml
title: Switching to SSR
---
# Walkthrough: Switching to Server-Side Rendering (SSR)

By default, the Next.js sample application uses a route optimized for Static Site Generation (SSG). However, we have also provided a working SSR route you can use: [`\pages_examples\[[..path]].SSR.tsx`](https://github.com/Sitecore/jss/blob/master/samples/nextjs/src/pages_examples/%5B%5B%2E%2E%2Epath%5D%5D.SSR.tsx).

This file may be used as a starter for SSR routes in Next.js hybrid (both SSR & SSG) applications or may be used to switch the Next.js sample application to full SSR.

> See [Next.js documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs/basic-features/pages#two-forms-of-pre-rendering) to learn more about SSG, SSR, and hybrid modes of pre-rendering.

To switch the Next.js sample application to full SSR:

1. Rename the `\pages\[[..path]].tsx` to `[[..path]].SSG.tsx` and move to `\pages_examples\`
2. Rename the `\pages_examples\[[..path]].SSR.tsx` to `\pages_examples\[[..path]].tsx` and move to `\pages\`

Commit message:

[Docs][NextJs] Account for new `fetchWith` and `prerender` configuration options for 'jss create' (#620)
* Progress on doc updates for SSG/SSR & REST/GraphQL app modes

* parameter rename

* Another batch of updates

* Added 'Switching between REST and GraphQL' doc, minor cleanup

* Update "Tracking & Analytics Overview and Architecture" docs

Explicitly state that SSR is required for personalization, to avoid confusion

* Add jss create to CLI reference docs

* Add reference to CLI doc

* Added clarification to analytics support (SSR with Sitecore Layout Service REST API only) to "How is Next.js Different" doc

* Provide more detailed example for `jss create` with optional params

* Concentrate REST & SSR info in a pre-requisites section & clean up

* Re-work intro, adjust heading levels

* Drop parens

* Change wording

* Add CLI reference link, add headings for the switch sections

* Change case for consistency

* Add note about visitor consent for tracking

* Change heading

Co-authored-by: Adam Brauer <adab@sitecore.net>
Co-authored-by: Anastasiya Flynn <flynn.github@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Anca Emcken <AncaIO@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/data/routes/docs/nextjs/page-routing/switching-to-ssr/en.md, after:

---
name: switching-to-ssr
routeTemplate: ./data/component-templates/article.yml
title: Switching between SSG and SSR
---
# Walkthrough: Switching between Static Site Generation (SSG) and Server-Side Rendering (SSR)

The Next.js sample application `[[..path]].tsx` route can be optimized for either Static Site Generation (SSG) or Server-Side Rendering (SSR).

You can choose the initial pre-rendering form on create with the optional `prerender` parameter. SSG is used by default if you omit the parameter. For example, [with `jss create`](/docs/nextjs/getting-started-nextjs/walkthrough-jsscreate):

```
jss create my-first-jss-app nextjs --prerender {SSG|SSR}
```

However, you may wish to switch the pre-rendering form after creation or reference both for Next.js hybrid (both SSR & SSG) applications.

> See [Next.js documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs/basic-features/pages#two-forms-of-pre-rendering) to learn more about SSG, SSR, and hybrid forms of pre-rendering.

To switch the Next.js sample application from SSG to SSR:

1. Move or delete `\pages\[[..path]].tsx`
2. Download [`[[..path]].SSR.tsx`](https://github.com/Sitecore/jss/blob/master/samples/nextjs/src/pages/%5B%5B%2E%2E%2Epath%5D%5D.SSR.tsx) to `\pages\` and rename as `[[..path]].tsx`
3. Delete `\lib\sitemap-fetcher.ts` (optional)

To switch the Next.js sample application from SSR to SSG:

1. Move or delete `\pages\[[..path]].tsx`
2. Download [`[[..path]].tsx`](https://github.com/Sitecore/jss/blob/master/samples/nextjs/src/pages/%5B%5B%2E%2E%2Epath%5D%5D.tsx) to `\pages\`
3. Download [`sitemap-fetcher.ts`](https://github.com/Sitecore/jss/blob/master/samples/nextjs/src/lib/sitemap-fetcher.ts) to `\lib\`
