docs/data/routes/connected-demo/explore-sitecore/experience-editor/en.md, before:

---
name: experience-editor
routeTemplate: ./data/routes/connected-demo/en.yml
title: Experience Editor
---

# Experience Editor
Navigate to the Sitecore log-in screen and enter the login credentials provided in your confirmation email.

<p>
  <div class="row">
    <div class="col-md-6"> 
      <p><img src="/assets/img/ExperienceEditor1.jpg" alt="Habitat Fitness"></p>
    </div>
    <div class="col-md-6"> 
      <p>Enter the Experience Editor from the Launchpad.</p>
      <p>The Experience Editor is a WYSIWYG (What You See Is What You Get) editor that allows you to easily make changes to items directly on the page. You can edit all the items that are visible on the page — text, graphics, logos, links, and so on. In the Experience Editor, you can edit the fields of the current item and the fields of any items rendered on the page. For instance, if the menu on the page consists of titles of the product items, you can edit the titles without navigating to the product items themselves.</p>
    </div>
  </div>
<p>

View in EE mode.

From here you can edit the Event Title or Event Description inline right on this page. 

![Habitat Fitness](/assets/img/ExperienceEditor2.jpg)

<br>

To make edits and access the various inline toolbars, click on the Home tab in the EE Navigation and select Edit.

![Habitat Fitness](/assets/img/ExperienceEditor3.jpg)

<br>

When you are finished making edits, remember to click Save (also on the Home tab).

Commit message:

Add information about locking the page to Experience Editor section

docs/data/routes/connected-demo/explore-sitecore/experience-editor/en.md, after:

---
name: experience-editor
routeTemplate: ./data/routes/connected-demo/en.yml
title: Experience Editor
---

# Experience Editor
Navigate to the Sitecore log-in screen and enter the login credentials provided in your confirmation email.

<p>
  <div class="row">
    <div class="col-md-6"> 
      <p><img src="/assets/img/ExperienceEditor1.jpg" alt="Habitat Fitness"></p>
    </div>
    <div class="col-md-6"> 
      <p>Enter the Experience Editor from the Launchpad.</p>
      <p>The Experience Editor is a WYSIWYG (What You See Is What You Get) editor that allows you to easily make changes to items directly on the page. You can edit all the items that are visible on the page — text, graphics, logos, links, and so on. In the Experience Editor, you can edit the fields of the current item and the fields of any items rendered on the page. For instance, if the menu on the page consists of titles of the product items, you can edit the titles without navigating to the product items themselves.</p>
    </div>
  </div>
<p>

View in Experience Editor mode.

From here you can edit component fields inline, right on this page. But first you need to lock the page for editing to prevent other authors from overwriting your changes. This is a feature of Sitecore's workflow capabilities. To lock the page:
1. Expand the page ribbon using the toggle in the upper right corner
![Habitat Fitness](/assets/img/ExperienceEditor4.png)

2. Click "Lock"
![Habitat Fitness](/assets/img/ExperienceEditor5.png)

<br>

Now you may begin editing the page by clicking "Edit"
![Habitat Fitness](/assets/img/ExperienceEditor2.png)

To make inline edits to component fields (Event Title or Event Description), click on the text you want to edit. A cursor will appear, and you will be able to type in changes.
![Habitat Fitness](/assets/img/ExperienceEditor3.png)

<br>

When you are finished making edits, remember to click Save (also on the Home tab).
